README.md, before:

# play-auditing

![](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/hmrc/play-auditing)

play-auditing contains code to facilitate creation of audit events and their publication to Datastream. This includes both explicit events and implicit events.

Explicit events are where your code creates an audit event and asks for it to be sent. Implicit events are created automatically by via http-core when a service makes some HTTP request, and is based on configuration.

## Adding to your build

In your SBT build add:

```scala
resolvers += MavenRepository("HMRC-open-artefacts-maven2", "https://open.artefacts.tax.service.gov.uk/maven2")

libraryDependencies += "uk.gov.hmrc" %% "play-auditing-play-x" % "x.x.x"
```

Where play-xx is your version of Play (e.g. play-28).

## Usage

#### Implicit auditing of outgoing HTTP calls in conjunction with http-verbs and Play

```scala
import uk.gov.hmrc.play.audit.http.config.LoadAuditingConfig
import uk.gov.hmrc.play.audit.http.connector.AuditConnector
import uk.gov.hmrc.play.audit.http.HttpAuditing
import uk.gov.hmrc.play.config.{AppName, RunMode}
import uk.gov.hmrc.play.http.ws._

object Audit extends AuditConnector with RunMode {
  override lazy val auditingConfig = LoadAuditingConfig(s"$env.auditing")
}

protected object WSHttp extends WSGet with WSPut with WSPost with WSDelete with WSPatch with AppName with RunMode with HttpAuditing {
  override val hooks = Seq(AuditingHook)
  override val auditConnector = Audit
}
```

[For more information on http-verbs, please see the docs here](http://github.com/hmrc/http-verbs)

#### Explicit auditing
You should be able to inject AuditConnector.

AuditConnector has 3 methods for explicit audits. Use whichever you prefer.

 ```scala
 auditConnector.sendExplicitAudit("theAuditType", ExampleAuditData("123"))
 auditConnector.sendExplicitAudit("theAuditType", Json.obj("vrn" -> "123", "some" -> Json.obj("nested" -> "value")))
 auditConnector.sendExplicitAudit("theAuditType", Map("vrn" -> "123"))
```

The `sendExplicitAudit` methods need the implicit parameter `HeaderCarrier`.

## Configuration

You'll also need to supply an auditing configuration.

Request auditing is provided for all HTTP requests that are made using http-core that use the AuditingHook. Each request/response pair results in an audit message being created and sent to an external auditing service for processing.  To use this service, your configuration needs to include:

```javascript
auditing {
  enabled = true
  consumer {
    baseUri {
      host = ...
      port = ...
    }
  }
}
```

`HttpAuditing` provides `def auditDisabledForPattern: Regex` which client applications may chose to override when mixing in `HttpAuditing`.

## Changes

### Version 9.4.0

Removes unnecessary "authorization" field from implicit OutboundCall audits.

### Version 9.3.0

Drops Play 2.8.

### Version 9.0.0

Built for Scala 3 and drops Scala 2.12.

### Version 8.8.0

Builds for Play 3.0, 2.9 and 2.8

### Version 8.0.0

Bumps `http-verbs`, which indicates whether payloads provided for auditing have been truncated or omitted.
This should not affect most clients, as long as a compatible library versions are used. It is generally expected that clients only depend on `bootstrap-play` which will transitively provide compatible versions.

### Version 7.11.0

- Drops support for Play 2.6 and 2.7. Only Play 2.8 is supported.
- Cross compiles for 2.12 and 2.13

### Version 5.0.0

- play-auditing is no longer build with the `sbt-play-cross-compilation` plugin (where the version of play was embedded in the version of the library). Instead, multiple modules are produced for different versions of play:

| Version | Play Version | Scala Version |
|---------|--------------|---------------|
| play-auditing-play-27  | Play 2.7.x | 2.12
| play-auditing-play-26  | Play 2.6.x | 2.11, 2.12
| play-auditing-play-25  | Play 2.5.x | 2.11

- joda time has been replaced with java time internally.

## License ##

This code is open source software licensed under the [Apache 2.0 License]("http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html").

Commit message:

CCIT-1350: Inject auditProvider from configuration for all audit events

README.md, after:

# play-auditing

![](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/hmrc/play-auditing)

play-auditing contains code to facilitate creation of audit events and their publication to Datastream. This includes both explicit events and implicit events.

Explicit events are where your code creates an audit event and asks for it to be sent. Implicit events are created automatically by via http-core when a service makes some HTTP request, and is based on configuration.

## Adding to your build

In your SBT build add:

```scala
resolvers += MavenRepository("HMRC-open-artefacts-maven2", "https://open.artefacts.tax.service.gov.uk/maven2")

libraryDependencies += "uk.gov.hmrc" %% "play-auditing-play-x" % "x.x.x"
```

Where play-xx is your version of Play (e.g. play-28).

## Usage

#### Implicit auditing of outgoing HTTP calls in conjunction with http-verbs and Play

```scala
import uk.gov.hmrc.play.audit.http.config.LoadAuditingConfig
import uk.gov.hmrc.play.audit.http.connector.AuditConnector
import uk.gov.hmrc.play.audit.http.HttpAuditing
import uk.gov.hmrc.play.config.{AppName, RunMode}
import uk.gov.hmrc.play.http.ws._

object Audit extends AuditConnector with RunMode {
  override lazy val auditingConfig = LoadAuditingConfig(s"$env.auditing")
}

protected object WSHttp extends WSGet with WSPut with WSPost with WSDelete with WSPatch with AppName with RunMode with HttpAuditing {
  override val hooks = Seq(AuditingHook)
  override val auditConnector = Audit
}
```

[For more information on http-verbs, please see the docs here](http://github.com/hmrc/http-verbs)

#### Explicit auditing
You should be able to inject AuditConnector.

AuditConnector has 3 methods for explicit audits. Use whichever you prefer.

 ```scala
 auditConnector.sendExplicitAudit("theAuditType", ExampleAuditData("123"))
 auditConnector.sendExplicitAudit("theAuditType", Json.obj("vrn" -> "123", "some" -> Json.obj("nested" -> "value")))
 auditConnector.sendExplicitAudit("theAuditType", Map("vrn" -> "123"))
```

The `sendExplicitAudit` methods need the implicit parameter `HeaderCarrier`.

## Configuration

You'll also need to supply an auditing configuration.

Request auditing is provided for all HTTP requests that are made using http-core that use the AuditingHook. Each request/response pair results in an audit message being created and sent to an external auditing service for processing.  To use this service, your configuration needs to include:

```javascript
auditing {
  enabled = true
  consumer {
    baseUri {
      host = ...
      port = ...
    }
  }
}
```

`HttpAuditing` provides `def auditDisabledForPattern: Regex` which client applications may chose to override when mixing in `HttpAuditing`.

## Changes

### Version 9.5.0

Populate the auditProvider attribute for all audits.

### Version 9.4.0

Removes unnecessary "authorization" field from implicit OutboundCall audits.

### Version 9.3.0

Drops Play 2.8.

### Version 9.0.0

Built for Scala 3 and drops Scala 2.12.

### Version 8.8.0

Builds for Play 3.0, 2.9 and 2.8

### Version 8.0.0

Bumps `http-verbs`, which indicates whether payloads provided for auditing have been truncated or omitted.
This should not affect most clients, as long as a compatible library versions are used. It is generally expected that clients only depend on `bootstrap-play` which will transitively provide compatible versions.

### Version 7.11.0

- Drops support for Play 2.6 and 2.7. Only Play 2.8 is supported.
- Cross compiles for 2.12 and 2.13

### Version 5.0.0

- play-auditing is no longer build with the `sbt-play-cross-compilation` plugin (where the version of play was embedded in the version of the library). Instead, multiple modules are produced for different versions of play:

| Version | Play Version | Scala Version |
|---------|--------------|---------------|
| play-auditing-play-27  | Play 2.7.x | 2.12
| play-auditing-play-26  | Play 2.6.x | 2.11, 2.12
| play-auditing-play-25  | Play 2.5.x | 2.11

- joda time has been replaced with java time internally.

## License ##

This code is open source software licensed under the [Apache 2.0 License]("http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html").
